*Data and scripts for the paper:*

# Soil eDNA reflects regionally dominant species rather than local composition of tropical tree communities

**Francesc Borràs Sayas<sup>1</sup>, Ottavia Iacovino<sup>2</sup>, María Uriarte<sup>3</sup>, Jess K. Zimmerman<sup>4</sup>, Christopher J. Nytch<sup>4</sup>, Glenn Dunshea<sup>2*</sup>*, and Robert Muscarella<sup>1*</sup>**

<sup>1</sup> Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden  
<sup>2</sup> Department of Natural History, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim 7491, Norway  
<sup>3</sup> Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, Columbia University, New York, USA  
<sup>4</sup> Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico  
<sup>*</sup> Corresponding authors: [robert.muscarella@ebc.uu.se](mailto:robert.muscarella@ebc.uu.se), [glenn.dunshea@ntnu.no](mailto:glenn.dunshea@ntnu.no)

**Please contact Robert Muscarella for enquiries about:**  
- The LFDP  
- LFDP census data  
- Confusion matrix analyses & simulations  

**Please contact Glenn Dunshea for enquiries about:**  
- The eDNA experimental design  
- Laboratory workflows  
- Bioinformatics  

---

## Instructions

1. Clone this repository.

2. Download data files (Zenodo link).

3. Transfer the data files from the unzipped Zenodo archive to the directory(ies) of the same name in the cloned `eDNA-LFDP` repository.

4. Open the R project in RStudio and go to the **Files** tab.

5. The scripts are sequentially numbered from `00` onward to reproduce all analyses and figures presented in this study.

6. **Important:**  
   In the `00.dada2+taxonomy+phyloseq.R` script:
   - Set working directory paths in the shell script as instructed at the top.
   - Install required software packages.
   - Some parts of this script (e.g., shell commands) are not R code and must be run from the terminal.  
   - After DADA2 denoising of sequence data, LULU curation of ASV tables is partially done via the terminal—this is clearly flagged in the script.  
   - All scripts after this point are fully run in R.

7. Scripts can be:
    - **(a)** Run from first principles using the raw sequencing data received from the sequencing service provider, **or**
    - **(b)** Run starting from saved R image files available at the beginning of some scripts (after 00), which contain R objects generated by previous steps.

---

